Why does AI need a lot of memory at all?
So you just explained you know it's
important for inference it's important
for training whatever but like why
>> uh let's say you want to train a model
right and then you need you just need to
pure tons of data you need to just write
tons of data there to train your model
and then for the inferencing part like
you need one data after another to kind
of compute one after another sort of a
chain of sort right so to to do that
process how can you keep the previous
data you process to keep it in there and
to process to another data that coming
out after right so that's why you need
lot of memory you know back to TGBT
research coming out. uh people just like
hey like what's the weather right like a
very simple questions people right now
is or last year people are doing like
hey can you write a um 20 page report um
uh how cancer can happen on people right
for example they will give like 20 page
report and they will wait like five
minutes right and so if you think about
the process like they do all the
calculation all the researches and also
give you the output tokens that the the
sort of the the answer you get from your
prompt that's significant way longer
than the the prompts that you are given,
right? And that's also lot longer
response that you are getting when you
go back to the GPD3 and remember the
usage we know back to GPD3 was it was
the the you forgot the the monthly daily
users but right now it was I think the
user for GGP was 800 million right and
we are not included the users for the
Gemini for cloud for XAI right so if you
you multiply those effects I think the
memory demand is very significant and
it's very uh clear to
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Tracy, you know what I'm worried about?
I don't know if I'm worried about it,
but it kind of feels like the direction
things are going, which is that like all
energy, industrial commodities, anything
that we use for any purpose is just
going to like feed the AI beast. And us
humans, we're just gonna get uh left out
in the cold. They're like, "Nothing for
you. We gota like feed we got to feed it
all to the AI and and and maybe in 10 or
20 or 50 years, the AI is so powerful,
they just decide why why do humans get
any of this? We just uh we should keep
it all to ourselves."
>> Um a legitimate concern I would say. I
mean to some extent we are already
seeing this crowding out effect, right?
So energy prices in certain areas have
been going up and most recently memory
chip prices. So this has been all over
earnings recently. You had companies
like Apple saying that because of a a
crunch in memory chip supply, they might
have to either raise their prices or
like cut down on the amount of phones
they use. Nintendo, like if you pull up
a chart of Nintendo shares right now,
they are just getting hammered. And
supposedly it is all because of this
memory chip shortage. By the way,
>> do you remember do you remember like
buying your first PC? Yeah. In like you
bought one before I did, I think, but
mine was in the mid 90s.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think that's about when I
got one.
>> Do you remember how much memory those
things had?
>> Oh, like nothing. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Like I looked it up. Something
like less than 10 megabytes for a bunch
of them. You know how much PCs have
nowadays?
>> Actually, it's a good I have no idea.
>> I think it's Let's see. 16 gigabytes.
>> Yeah.
>> Isn't that crazy?
>> It is. It is really crazy. I remember
like do you remember zip drives?
>> Yeah. Oh my god.
>> And or like and there were all these
special, you know, obviously various
memory peripherals that you could buy
and they came in sort of dedicated
cartridges and stuff like that. I think
they were called zip drive. Yeah, I
think. Right. They were zip drives. I
don't remember.
>> Yeah, it was. Yeah, that's right.
>> Buying additional memory, storage, etc.
used to be this big part of the consumer
process. Um, I'm actually glad, you
know, my son really wants a Nintendo,
but if they can't produce them anymore
because they can't get the memory, then
I'll say, "Sorry, no video games."
>> That's so mean. You're going to have to
sit him down and be like, "I'm so sorry,
son. Uh, you know, there there's this
thing called a supply shortage. I'm
going to use this as a learning
opportunity to explain how global supply
chains actually work."
>> Totally. You know the other the one
interesting thing is um if you look at
spot DRAM prices which we have on the
terminal
>> um you know there are a lot this is I
think maybe the interesting dynamic
there's a lot of AI related things on
the terminal that have been surging for
several years most notably some of the
big chip companies Nvidia etc. If you
look at a chart of spot DRAM prices the
big surge wasn't until late last year
and then since then it's gone nuts. So
for a long time even as this AI story
the AI meme the AI industry like
propagated people weren't really paying
attention to that that area and then
suddenly it's just gone like you know
the haywire
>> haywire yeah and so obviously huge
supply demand imbalances we need to
understand what's going on because I
think the uh the stakes are you know
it's getting so much as you mentioned a
lot of companies are losing out pretty
big others are making a lot of money we
sort of need to get a handle on uh
what's going on with memory
>> let's do it
>> um I'm really excited to say We really
do have the perfect guest. We are going
to be speaking with Ray Wong. He's an
analyst at semi analysis and he's
recently published a brand new report uh
on exactly this topic talking about a
memory super cycle and so forth. So
truly the perfect guest as I mentioned
he's uh comes to us from Korea. Ray,
thank you so much for coming on OddLots.
>> Hey, nice to be me both and thanks for
having me.
>> Uh so many questions. Really appreciate
you uh joining us. Let's just start with
the basics like what is it about AI or
what is going on what is the core idea
such that demand for memory in various
forms is absolutely seem to be booming
right now in a way that caught the uh
supply side of the equation very
offguard.
Yeah, I think you know to really look at
kind of the sort of imbalance supply
demand dynamics really we want to look
at like you know what happened a few
years ago right because you know your
capacity check like your investment few
years ago and what's happening you know
like in 2023 2024 it's it's sort of a
down cycle right because remember during
the covid all the companies are try to
flock in to buy tons of DM right and you
know there's a lot of uh purchases there
right and there sort of like upcycle
right but it's like very very short up
cycle Because like when the co gradually
getting better right you actually don't
need that much DRAM and back then the
company will be like hey you actually
don't have a sustainable demand right so
they don't want to overinvest to expand
their capacity and when you go into the
down cycle your capex typically being
very constrained very like you know
company from their perspective they try
to be conservative so that leads to 2024
and 25 that your in incremental wafer
capacity that goes to DM is actually
quite limited it but what's happening on
the demand end is actually the demand
was accelerating so fast right you know
is you know one way to look at it is
look at Nvidia's earnings right u and if
you when you when you on one side your
demand was asserating so fast on the
other hand on the supply side your uh
supply just couldn't catch up and there
there's more nuances behind behind the
supply right because before they are
just supplying all the commodity DN like
DDR uh LPDDR right the all the memory
that goes to PCs goes to laptops, goes
to your mobiles, goes to Nintendo
Switches, right? But you know what's
happening, you know, in this AI is like
there's a new thing called HBN. Think
about as like a specialized me memory
for directly for airator and that memory
is extremely d wafer intensive. um to
give you a sense right you know on the
same wafer basis you can produce three
more bits uh if you do commodity DM but
you can only produce one bits of HBM
right and that ratio will actually going
higher when you go to HBM 4 HBM 5 in the
next few years right so in that way on
the same wafer basis you can you can
only produce that much HBM and right now
what's happening is like hey this HBN is
super super um profitable and why not we
dedicate more wafer for HBM M but so
here's the problem right you only have
that much wafer and you need you try to
do everything so that'sing out a lot of
the supply going to the commodity dre
right so we have we have sort of both
things is happening and essentially
comes down to like I think really you
know things start really kind of people
aware it's like probably Q2 2025 that
people realize hey like you know we
actually couldn't find enough like
enough DAM uh both enough uh commodity
DD RAM and also HBN uh for their demand
So you mentioned the uh the C word just
then. Oh wait, not that C word.
Commodities. Uh you mentioned
commodities and when I'm reading these
articles about a memory chip shortage.
Uh people use commodity type language,
right? So you hear super cycle a lot.
You hear commoditized chips versus I
don't know other types of chips. Are
they customized? I don't think so. But
anyway,
>> how much does this particular industry
actually resemble a commodities like
industry? and then maybe explain a
little bit more why historically it has
been really really cyclical.
>> Yeah. So I think a couple reasons right
uh you know fundamentally the the sort
of the cost per bits for DM was actually
coming coming down every single year
significantly right even in the most
recent year was also coming down but
like the the extent that they are coming
down for every single year is actually
slowing down like in the over the past
like 10 20 years right so the cost was
keep going down right so cost it's hard
to become like um you know the most
competitive part right another thing is
there's a you know there's like sort of
the committee that that let's set up the
standard for DRAM right so well you are
doing a similar products right you're
just having you know oh this is kind of
little better power efficiency uh as the
performance was a little better right
here and there so like it's hard for you
know memory supplier to significantly
differentiate their products compared to
their competitor right so essentially
what's the what's the things that will
compete in the end will be the market
prices right and then when you are
selling the similar products and you are
targeting similar audience ience right
that sort of like uh are the commodity
you know sort of semiconductor commodity
products to me um and I think those are
the two main characteristics I'm seeing
for DRAM and I think that's a little
little different for HBM
>> explain this so there's commodity DRAMM
and then there's HBM what HBM is a type
of DRM is that what you're saying
>> yes yes so
>> explain this further and like sort of
yeah like walk us through like what the
commodity version and why there is this
thing called HBM high bandwidth memory
what that's all about.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So essentially the emergence
of HBN is really go down to a kind of
model layer because you know this is
when you like try to scale and try to
scale in your AI model right your flops
keep inc uh your flop is uh increasing
significantly every single year right
because your compute was increased lot
faster but your memory bandwidth was
actually sort of it's increasing but
it's very limited uh especially if you
are using the memory from uh kind of
traditional commodity DD RAM that the
bandwidth is actually very limited So
from the memory supply they are thinking
hey like how can we expand the bandwidth
to supporting the the memory they going
to the to scale scale the AI right so
let's console HBN so the way they do HBN
it's so they are stacking multiply eight
or 12 or even in the future 16 deer and
dice together right so that making you
be have like essentially having higher
uh bandwidth and have enough capacity to
support AI development moments uh over
the past few years and in the next few
years and that's very different right
you are stacking all these dice together
compared to hey I just we just have like
one DM products as a chip right and also
that also comes down to a point that HBM
manufacturing also the packaging but
both front end and back end is a lot
more complex compared to commodity DN
and that's why I say commodity run is
more like commoditized but I think HBN
is less so because it's a lot more
complex right and for supplier you can
actually differentiate either from on
the front end or backend technology and
when your EL is better right it give you
better margin uh better ability to
compare uh compete with your competitor
right and you know stuff like thermal
things like that it's it's the thing
that will really stand out right and
that's very different commodity DM
>> getting more and more layers on HBM it
kind of reminds me of the Razor Wars
where like you know Gillette would
unveil a threeblade thing and then the
next day someone has like 12 or whatever
>> um so if I'm a company like Nintendo How
am I actually purchasing chips? Because
I think this is going to be important
when we talk about what's going on right
now. But do I have like a forward
contract um with a major supplier or do
I have I don't know a warehouse full of
chips that I bought previously? How do
they actually manage that?
>> So there's a couple ways they do it,
right? They will they will do it in
internal like kind of they will do it
different way like different
environments and also different vendors,
right? So it's hard to say like hey this
is exactly exactly the way they do it
but typically I think you can think
about like hey this is amount of the
chips we're going to purchase in the
next four months and this is amount
we're going to commit right and we're
going to sign a contract pricing whether
this term will be four months or for the
lta you can go like as long as like to a
year or even two years right uh so
that's typical way you think about it
but typically you'll be like hey we
signed this contract for four months
right and by the end sorry for three
months for a quarter so by the end of
that quarter you negotiate a new
contract pricing for the next quarter.
So that's typically the way it work. But
you know the problem for right now is
for consumer electronics is like the
pricing probably sort of I will say
secondary because if you couldn't secure
value you couldn't even make any money
right. So number one is securing value
whether that you know make sure that
fits uh uh to the demand outlook you are
seeing. Two is whether you can negotiate
the best pricing you can. But given the
overall pricing environment was so
volatile, was so escalating so much,
it's hard to like not taking some kinds
of margin impact because essentially you
know you try to get a chips right and
you cannot just you know get too much
away from your vendors.
>> I want to get more into the demand
destruction element because I think this
is very important to think about where
the equilibrium is going. But could you
just just to clarify what is it about AI
specifically? Is it in the training? Is
it in the inference? Where specifically
in the process of building out AI
services does this voracious demand for
DRAM come from? So honestly is you know
to be very honest I think it's
everywhere like right you know AI
training you need tons of HBM that just
everyone know right you also need a lot
of the CPU DM and that's LPDDR and the
DDR that goes through the server you
also need HBM right so that's on the
training part in the inferencing you
also need HBM right and you also need
the the CPU DN to go through those uh
workload right but you know the main one
will be the HBM and even the inferencing
right right now they are separating to
prefill and decode and you know I think
80% uh I think right now like the most
important thing will be decode right and
the code is super super like memory
bound and memory intensive and HPN the
memory importance of there was just will
only increase to my understanding
especially given the long content window
continue to expand and the inference
usage and adoptions continue to going up
right so I think those are typical way I
would think about those right and the
last things I think a lot of people are
talk about these days about agentic AI
right agentic AI I you want to power low
you need a lot of CPU you know a lot of
CPU based server right so what's so
what's including in the CPU server
there's a lot of D in there right uh and
a lot of agentic low also mean you need
a lot of inference as well right and
that go back to my previous point you
need a lot of HBN and DN right so I will
say like kind of DN and I got HB and DN
is kind of everywhere and we can kind of
talk about storage but storage is so
everywhere you know in during this
process
>> I'm sorry if I I have a basic question,
but why does AI need a lot of memory at
all? So, you just explained, you know,
it's important for inference, it's
important for training, whatever, but
like why?
>> Yeah, I think I think this this
literally like goes down to the to the
model layer, right? Because essentially
when you are trying to train uh let's
say you want to train a model, right?
And then you need you just need to pure
tons of data. You need to address right
tons of data there to train your model.
And then for the inferencing part like
you need one data after another to kind
of compute one after another sort of a
chain of salt, right? So to to do that
process, how can you keep the previous
data you process to keep in there and to
process to another data that coming out
after, right? So that's why you need lot
of memory and go back to my previous
point, right? The long contest window
basically means like when you're when
the the things that you are processing
longer and longer, right? like how can
you how can you have enough memory to
process those right and you know one of
the great example if you use tragt uh
you guys definitely remember right you
know back to tragt coming out uh people
just like hey like what's the weather
right like a very simple questions
people right now is or last year people
are doing like hey can you write a um 20
page report um u how cancer can happen
on people right for example then we give
like 20 page report and they will wait
like five minutes right and so if If you
think about the process like they do all
the calculation all the researches and
also give you the output tokens that the
the sort of the the answer you get from
your prompt that's significant way
longer than the the prompts that you are
given right and that's also lot longer
response that you are getting when you
go back to the GPD3 and remember the
usage we know back to GPD3 was it was
the the you forgot the the monthly daily
users but right now it was I think the
user GPD was 800 million Right. And we
are not included the users for the
Gemini for cloud for XAI. Right. So if
you you multiply those effects I think
the memory demand is very significant
and it's very uh clear to me.
>> Yeah it's really interesting. I saw
someone people were talking about this
but it really strikes me in my own usage
of AI just basically how much more I use
it as capabilities have grown. Like it
was sort of cute in late 2022. was like,
"Oh, get it to write a poem about this."
And I was like, "Okay." And then I would
go, you know, several weeks sometimes
without having anything to query. Um,
and then, you know, these days like I'm
using it all the time like trying to do
things with code or scrape data, etc. So
to just overall token consumption has
grown massively with increased
capabilities. All right, let's talk
about the demand destruction element.
any commodity is going to be the price
is going to be a function of supply and
demand and eventually prices get high
enough such that certain forms of demand
just are no longer economical and it's
like you know what we're just not going
to make as many video games or cameras
or whatever else uses uh memory. Are we
starting to see any of that yet such
that certain um uses and consumption of
memory
>> so Joe doesn't have to buy a Switch for
his son?
>> Yeah, that's right.
>> Yeah, I I actually bought a Switch
recently. Uh so the price haven't I
haven't seen price by the way.
>> Are you going to resell it?
>> I don't know we'll see that how the
arbit arbitrage there works. uh but yeah
I think I think we already seeing a lot
of impacts actually but it kind of it
kind of vary in different kinds of
product line right in PC we're surely
seeing that Dell nanovo answer ASUS they
are all having a price hike for kind of
different product lines right and you
know on the kind of demand side you also
seeing that uh I think uh for the
Chinese smartphone market right a lot of
the analysts a lot of the research firm
right a lot of the company was saying
like they are cutting off their
smartphone outlook for example Um I
think media tech recently left for
earnings right they are saying they're
cutting out the the mobile to I think it
was 12 or 10 to 15% of the 2026 outlook
that's very significant right you saying
this year will be this year supposed to
be 100 million but you will essentially
goes to um 90 million right that's very
significant um so I think we are already
seeing that but kind of vary different
places right Apple will be a great
example here because they are saying hey
like Hey, we have all the price hike,
right? But we actually managed pretty
well. Uh they are saying the real sort
of minimal margin impact will actually
show up in the second half 2026 instead
of like the first quarter or second
quarter. Uh I think those sort of the
things I'm seeing. So it's definitely
already showing up in the market, right?
Uh I think what you can expect this year
will be two things. One is sort of
demand destruction in PCs, right? the B
consumer electronics or the dispect
whether it's the memory dispect that's
very straightforward but also the camera
right the camera is also very important
I'm hearing some of the display on the
camera as well and you know also on the
sort of the what we call like delay
launch right because you don't want to
launch your new products that have
higher price than you initially thought
which will impact your new launch
performance which usually the your new
launch product have better ASP better
margin compared to your previous
generation products, right? I think
those are the things we're going to see
uh in the coming months, in the coming
quarters, and I think we'll show impact
and people will start feeling it.
>> Joe, do you think we're going to get
people like stripping old Nintendos for
memory chips? Like remember how during
the commodity super cycle in like the
early 2010s, I guess there were all
those stories about people like
>> stealing electricity wires.
>> It happened again in 2021, too, I think.
Yeah, we might uh we might get some of
that. Well, actually on that note, is
there is there like a shortterm fix for
this problem? Either in terms of design,
maybe you can make the product more
efficient in some way so that it needs
less memory or um recycling old memory
chips. I don't know.
>> Yeah, I think you know from the demand
side is a lot difficult, right? From an
OEM perspective, right? There's only
that much you can do, right? You can
dispect, right? But I don't think that
address the fundamental issues, right?
you are just despite your products and
so you can ship but that there this
double age word right when you down
downgrade your products that actually
look bad compared to some of your peers
who doesn't dispect right and make your
product less competitive that impact
your final sort of the the quarterly or
annual shipment I think what's need to
be addressed or what can be done is
probably on the supply side right uh so
supply side we are mainly talk about a
couple of vendors right uh the Micron
high Samsung and for legacy ones, right?
You have Wimbang, Nanya and China like
CSMT and JHICC right those people um so
I think the most direct way right now
this year because this year the the
really challenge is there's a clean room
constraint so clean room constraint is
basically you have limited um space that
you can put all increments and start
manufacturing chips in the fab right so
you have clean room shortage in all
three major memory makers right so your
incremental wafer capacity coming online
for 2026 will actually be quite limited.
So in that sense, how can you produce
more bits, more DM bits while having
only limited incremental wafer capacity?
The only thing you can do it's uh non
migration. So for example uh so in
Durham process now you have the most
advances right now it's 1 C right going
down have 1 B 1 A and 1 X blah blah
right and you know I think right now
they are trying to do is migrate as much
as they can to 1 B and 1 C which on the
same wafer basis they are produce uh lot
more chip uh a lot more bits uh compared
to a legacy not right so do doing that
way on the same wafer basis you can
produce more bits so that should produce
there's more uh supply even though your
wafer capacity is constrained but the
challenge is two things one how fast you
can run about this N migration right N
migration is typically difficult well I
won't say difficult is you know it takes
time right um for to go going to the
most advanced now right you need EUV
machine right you need all different
kind of manufacturing processes right
and not every fab can already prepare to
doing that right so it will takes time
to learn about all those production for
the new advanced Not also you are having
the challenge to like hey okay I want to
do that migration right but how are we
going to balance the capacity with HBN
again that's another issue you want to
kind of think about it right because
some of the HBM process now uh is
actually using for highix they are using
1B so that's actually the advanced
processor right so even you are
including 1B but you want to do more HBM
so like the increase here is actually
quite limited so I think those uh the
way can potentially fix the issue but
you know uh you know from our house
view, right? Even we factor all those
in, I think this year we still going to
see quite significant shortage. Yeah.
>> One of the themes that comes up when we
talk about any commodities super cycle
is that sure higher prices will
eventually elicit more production, more
supply, but in the meantime, you know,
there's a sweet spot for the existing
producers, especially when you have just
a small number of producers that can
produce at scale. They can they're they
enjoy massive profits, right? and
they're sort of going to be reluctant to
build out new fabs because that's money
going out the door. It also means lower
prices. So, there's always this sort of
goldilocks period for them before the
supply comes online where they're just
raking in profits. H what do we see is
the uh industries's impulse to invest.
And I'm curious like you know whether
it's Chinese producers, are they in a
position to undercut um potentially
undercut the profits of the Korean
makers? Are the Korean makers seeing
themselves as having a long window where
they can enjoy large profits before they
have to invest? Like what is the
thinking on the supply side about those
big capital outlays?
>> Yeah, that's a very good like strategic
question. I think you know every
management will probably give you a sort
of different answer or kind of on a high
level probably same. Uh but I think in
general right like you know you know
look at like historical cycle it's like
you know if we are seeing quite
sustainable demand in the next few years
and then clearly the capacity couldn't
catch on the demand they are going to
expand the capacity in some time right
it probably not going to be like hey we
announcing 2026 the capacity really
coming online like meaningfully it's
probably 2028 so they will I think they
will still announce right and we are
seeing that from Micron right Micron is
announcing a new NFAB in Singapore right
they are expanding they are they have
Fab currently is under construction in
US right also doing tons of non
migration and recently acquired the new
fab from PSMC which is a Taiwanese sho
maker right and all those move like you
are already seeing some sign of that and
another another sign you are seeing it's
the capex right both the highix Samsung
and Micron their during capex is
actually increased quite significant
this year and expect similar trend in
2027 given I think you know they're
gonna probably you know try to expand
more capacity and invests more in both
HBN as well as the equipments that go to
events uh events uh advanced equipment,
right? Uh that go back to the point I
was talking about the N migration,
right? If you want N migration, you need
to use more advanced equipment to
produce more advanced chips. Yeah, it
really does remind me of the oil
industry, right, where like there's a
bust in the underlying commodity price
and everyone starts talking about being
disciplined on capex spend and so it
takes a while to uh ramp up.
>> Uh I wanted to ask about I guess the
balance between HBM and other types of
DRAM. How are people or how are the
actual chip makers thinking about that?
And is there is there a chance that
because HBM,
my understanding is that it h it has
higher profit margins. Is there a chance
that everyone just pours into HBM and
kind of leaves the uh the more basic
stuff in the dust?
>> Yeah. So actually, you know, it's very
interesting. Uh I think what probably
things folk we wrote about this uh for
our institutional client it's that you
know the margin well typically we think
HBN has higher margin right which is
which is definitely true but what's
happening you know we see all this like
spot price contract price going up so
much right the margin of the commodity
rent right now is actually higher than
HBN
>> so here so that that created a real
dilemma that Tracy that you talk about
it because when your margin of commodity
is actually going higher why would you
make more HBM like why right but well I
think if you really think about like a
long-term perspective from a memory
supplier right before the old AI boom
you're demand is really driving from
couple A market right PC mobile
automotive industrial blah blah blah
right HBN right now is search as a new
growth driver for the company um which
we believe will last for the next few
years right and for the memory supplier
they're thinking the same and if you are
not continue to push your capacity, push
your technology when you're lagging
behind, it's hard to coming back and
they go go back to my previous point
that this is a area that is relatively
easier to differentiate your products to
get more market share more meaningfully,
right? So I think three memory makers
are very value HBM uh even though right
now the margin of commodity D is higher,
right? They will I think they will still
invest quite a lot on HBM. uh and they
will do their best to sort of balance
the commodity dram. But I think you know
I think this year at least the number
I'm seeing is is still quite significant
shortage. Yeah.
>> How do the Chinese uh producers compare
to the uh Korean producers? Is there a
is there a gap?
>> Oh yeah. I think there's definitely the
gap. I think like you know if you look
at the memory in general uh I think it's
probably three years is fair to say it's
probably four years I would say. uh you
know that this is very like you know
time this is like kind of as of today
you know who knows what's going to
happen in the future but I think you
know there's definitely a gap you know
when I think about the competition
pressure from Chinese memory makers we
always want to like kind of separate the
Chinese market and also the exchina
market let's also the memory supply was
looking at it right so Chinese market is
probably about 25% of the global DN
demand so really the competition is
happening in China because for the
leading Chinese memory supplier like
CSMT for example I I believe like 90% or
95% of the revenue is coming from uh
China and Hong Kong uh Hong Kong uh Hong
Kong right so meaning you know most of
the DN is really competing Chinese
market compete with Micron highix and
Samsung uh I I would say that right now
on the events on the high end right I
think still dominated by stream makers
but CSMT are gaining two momentum right
one they are probably getting sort of a
low-end and medium products and they are
also benefited by Chinese government's
policy in terms the self-sufficiency
drive to you know whether it's for the
commodity dur also right now they are
pushing for HBN developments that
support Chinese AI hardware so if
there's a shortage and it seems like the
shortage is going to be with us for some
time how are the chip makers actually
allocating what supply they have does it
go to you know the company that I think
is going to be really big and important
in the future like I don't know an open
AAI or something or does it go to an
existing customer that's been buying in
volume from me for years.
>> Yeah, I think there's no doubt to me
that you know some of the the highest
highest tier customer will get a value
for sure. uh of course there's a more
complex like pricing negotiation behind
but I will I will say like the value
will be still be the most important
thing and uh I think that's probably
what they're going to do right and you
know besides thinking about like a by
customer I will think about kind of by
sector I will say the server DN and HPN
two things together will be the top top
priority because you know if for the
whole a market in dan we are seeing
actually HBN and server DN together it's
probably like more is more than half of
the durian market right and that's
important and it's growing so fast right
and it's unlike the mobile right mobile
is kind of flat the mobile demand is
really driven by the increased uh during
contents in a mobile which is quite
limited right if you buy iPhone over the
past year you know like they are
actually quite limited on their d
content increase so I think I think you
know those are the top two priorities uh
for the memory company to focus on in
the next two three years and we'll see
what happen um you know after like you
know second half of 2027 or 2028 if
there's some structural change but I
think survey dur HBM will be the top
priorities
>> you know the other day I was very lazy
which is not rare for me
>> just that one day
>> just one day
>> and um I used clawed code you know I
have a bunch of screenshots on the
desktop of my computer and I it sort of
makes my desktop look like a mess and I
can't see folders so I'll like drag and
drop them and put them in the recycling
bin and I was very lazy and I put to
claude code. I said, "Clean up my
desktop. Clean up my desktop." And I was
like, "This is so insane. I'm using, you
know, Anthropics computers wherever they
are on the other side of the country to
clean up my own computer's desktop. Why
do I even have my own?
>> Did it do a good job?"
>> Yeah, of course. Yeah, it did great. And
I was like, why do I even have my own
computer at this point? I started
wondering, you know, I'm like use what
why do I even have a computer? Could it?
And so related to this sort of DRAM
question, could we just get into a
situation in which people don't really
have their own compute on on their own
device because more that like
Anthropic's brain is sort of or OpenAI's
brain is sort of controlling the things
we use. Why not just have a very
low-spec uh low-spec computer or
low-spec phone or whatever or you know
low memory whatever because I'm already
using their computers etc. And are we
just going to see whether memory or
elsewhere this sort of migration where
all of the interesting stuff and all of
the memory and all of the compute
happens elsewhere and my phone just
becomes a sort of you know or my
computer just becomes a a screen with an
internet access.
Yeah, I mean I don't I don't know about
the idea like you know not having the
personal devices but physical device but
it just sort of seems sim like over time
does it make sense for me to have all of
this actual compute inside my house when
I'm just like might as well let them let
them
>> you know I will say like depend yeah I
will say it depends on like what's your
emper purpose why you know for example
laptop for example right like if you are
doing like video editing mime heavy
right you probably still a lot of time
you probably still need quite a lot of
DN right if you are just you know doing
like you know document work right how
cold depends on how you going to use it
if you're using like super intensively I
think you still need like quite a good
DN especially you are like pulling all
different API from different places
right uh so I would say it just really
depends on the end purpose I I don't
think like you know at least at least I
haven't seen like you know there will be
like kind of structural
uh sort of the destruction in in the
devices from from aenting AI
>> so going back to the beginning of this
conversation and the cyclicality of the
industry. People have been throwing
around the term super cycle. Again, very
commodities.
Is this just a super cycle? Um, you
know, maybe bigger than a previous turns
that we've seen throughout history or do
you think something structural has
shifted here perhaps given the rise of
AI and the fact that Joe is, you know,
using claw to clean up his desktop?
This is a actually very dangerous
question to real you are basically
asking right whether this time is
different right you know uh uh I think
like you know I think there's a couple
things as it actually rhins with the
history right the non-migration f
capacity right those things but I would
say like you know there's kind of
different thing I'm seeing right because
we really see in a sort of super cycle
that there's a new demand driver coming
online it's not only constrain the
demand this thing is also constrain the
supply Right before because you know for
example in 2020 2010 to 2012 there's a
super cycle driven by mobile right so
mobile is basically hey we have a new
product coming online and it require a
lot of DN let's and our capacity
couldn't catch up but right now HBN is
like hey okay we need to do HBN but your
HBN is actually constrain your commodity
DN capacity so I think this is the key
difference that we are seeing for this
right apparently the demand assurations
is also last quite long right and if you
really start encounting the sort of I
say the AI acceleration in terms of
demand probably let's say second half of
2023 when Ambidilia really start kind of
emerging in people's attention
>> let's like to now it's almost probably
like let's say three years right two
year half two three years and we are
looking at this cycle to last until
let's say you know safely to say like
second half of 27 right so we are
looking at like kind of four year cycle
that's quite rare in the history the the
usually like the cycle if you look at
historically for the memory is probably
like uh 15 months like probably longest
just like 18 months from start to its
peak. But right now we are going to
through through a area that was like hey
the demand was going up not a price
directly but the demand at least was
growing quite significantly over the
past few years right and the pricing
impact is happening right now uh
starting from uh probably Q2 2025.
>> Yeah. Well, what is when you say okay
the cycle could end by 2027 or the
second half of 2027. What are the
ingredients for it to slow down? Is it
the more production capacity? Is it a
slowdown in act total demand? Like what
what do you see potentially happening in
2027 that brings supply and demand more
into balance?
>> Yeah. So I I won't say like it will end.
I will say like it's a more tricky area
to sort of estimate because you know
based on the number you know I'm
modeling we are seeing here it's
actually we are seeing the the demand is
actually going to it's actually the
demand is actually going higher and the
shortage is actually going to worse and
the power of that is because a media's a
server their during content was going to
3x compared to regular right and then
you look at the demand
>> anvidia server
>> the luben 200. Yeah. Okay. Sorry. Lubing
out. Sorry. Lubing out. Lubing 300,
right? And if that's the case and the
demand was continue to be that strong,
right? Your HBN shortage should even be
worse compared to 26 and your D should
also go worse, right? Because the memory
maker is going to try to make more HBN
wafer, right? And that kind of pointing
out more on commodity D. Uh I think the
reason I say it's more tricky because
two things. Uh I mentioned about L
migration. It's actually happened this
year. It also going to happen in 2027,
right? So, tons of line migration going
to coming online being completed. So,
that will add a lot of additional bits
for the memory supplier. Additionally,
the wafer should have lot more coming
online by the end of 26 and for you know
throughout 2027. Right. So, I think
those are two variables that you want to
factor in. Uh from what I'm seeing at
least I think like 2027 there are gonna
still be shortage. Yeah. M we need a uh
strategic memory chip reserve, right?
>> Put a floor on prices and the cycle.
>> Um actually on that note, do you see a
lot of stockpiling in the market or
panic buying right now where people are
seeing these forecasts and they're
freaking out and just buying whatever
they can.
>> How you get a bull whip effect.
>> That's right.
>> Yeah. It's hard to say no, right? like
um one of the good I think the signal
you're seeing in tiny Samsung and Micron
their dur inventory was dropping every
single quarter since I think Q3 2025
right um and that's that's one of the
signal that you are not just you know
buying the sort of the products on the
shelf right and the products that coming
online in that quarter you're also
buying the the products that in their
inventory right you you are trying to
get as much of the product as you
And you know and you know given all the
demand and how AI has developed so fast
like by month monthly basis it's hard to
say like hey there's no uh sort of
preemptive purchasing behavior happening
right and especially when the
hyperscalers and the leading labs
they're competing each with each other
uh very intensively uh securing capacity
on the hardware is sort of the baseline
right you you you want to get the best
equipment that you can compete right
yeah
>> um so obviously
uh if I'm buying a Nintendo Switch or if
I'm buying a PC or maybe some sort of
consumer device then the increased
memory cost is a meaningful driver of
that and may you know the company will
have to raise prices and maybe I won't
buy it or whatever and you might get
this what about like for the big uh
hyperscalers when we see these huge
capital expenditure numbers from the
likes of a Microsoft or an Amazon do
these prices changes move the dial at
these levels in terms of do they affect
anything when we're talking about these
buyers?
Yeah, I don't think you know number one
for sure, right? I think the the the
capex is not really well the capex
increase is not because of the dur price
increase.
>> Sure.
>> But the price increase does going to
have some kinds of impacts to their
purchases of memory. Right. Assuming the
hyperscalers are the direct buyer of the
memory which you know is not necessarily
the case in kind of different occasions
right. So if they assuming they are the
direct buyers of the memory for sure
right if you know if your initial goal
was using uh 100 million to buy a
certain amount of memory right now
probably you need to do some discount
there for sure especially this things is
probably going to the discount going to
be more and more in the coming quarter
right so one of the thing they are
trying they hopefully they are trying to
do but they still very difficult it's
like they try to have a long-term
agreement right uh to have a secure
commit uh to commit large value for the
year basis and to hopefully to have
better pricing but it's really hard to
you know to achieve that because why in
a memory supply I want to do that right
if we can you know negotiate a pricing
uh in a coding basis we can actually get
more money right and yeah especially
given the current uh pricing and supply
demand environments
>> Ray Wong thank you so much for uh coming
on OddLab it's really the perfect guest
uh let's uh stay in touch and maybe
we'll revisit it in 2027 to see if
things have eased Yeah, hopefully.
>> All right,
>> thanks.
>> Take care. Take care, Ray. That was
great.
>> Tracy, that was fun. I do feel like
there's a lot of moving pieces there,
but just from AI in general, the
crowding out effect is such a big part
of the story when when you saw those big
capital expenditure plans for 2027, like
these are real macro drivers. They're
going to show up in CPI, etc. like that.
And because it's like, you know, maybe
we'll get a lot of productivity gains in
the future, but right now the pace of
spending is so furious. It is like a a
fiscal boom.
>> Yeah. A fiscal stimulus.
>> This is what happens when some of the
world's biggest companies and most
cashrich companies decide that this is
an existential threat, right? There's no
upward limit on how much they're willing
to spend in order to survive. And so you
could just throw money at HBM chips, I
guess. Um, and then you get the chip
makers going, "Well, actually, like we
want to produce a bunch of HPM, like
forget about DRRAM, all of that stuff."
>> I do think like, yeah, you know, when it
comes to some of the data center and
energy stuff, you know, it's a little
ambiguous how much it's affecting energy
prices right now, but already the
politics of that is very fraud. And then
you're gonna start upsetting the gamer
community because they can't get act,
you know, Nvidia has talked about uh
curtailing some of it.
>> And then they're gonna upset my son
because he can't get a Nintendo Switch,
etc. People are just going to start
feeling it more and more. the sort of
visceral reality that various resources
that they thought they could get
abundantly. It's like nope, we've
switched this line over to the data
centers over to AI and it's become going
to become more this crowding out effect
is going to become more and more real to
people directly
>> which is so ironic because when you
think about AI, you know, it's this
thing that exists in the ether, right?
But at the same time, it has this huge
physical impact on the real world. I
it's it's kind of funny and I guess like
not what a lot of people would have
expected.
>> No. Uh I suppose I suppose not. Um the
DRAM people if you anyone who has a
terminal or just should just look up
DRAM prices because this is
>> I thought you were going to say anyone
who has a terminal should uh start
stripping out.
>> Anyone who has a terminal should just
unscrew the back and pull out the DRAM.
No, but if you have you people should
just look at the chart because really
here's this thing that's very sleepy. I
mean this was true commoditized tech.
you know, this was the low end in terms
of what people were excited about in
chips and so forth. And as Ry mentioned
in the beginning, you know, costs
generally were on this downward trend
and so forth because growth was modest
and technology continues to improve. And
then it literally just looks like an L
really in like the last four months just
gone completely nuts. And so, yeah, kind
of a a fascinating spot to watch. And
it's just interesting to the point that
you were making how much it really is
like a commodity super cycle. Yeah. A
commodity cycle.
>> I Well, I guess in 2027, maybe. We'll
find out.
>> We'll see if it balances out.
>> Should we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> All right. This has been another episode
of the All Thoughts Podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest Ray
Wong.
Rwong07.
Follow our producers Carmen Rodriguez at
Carmen Dashelbennett atbot and
kalebrooks at Kalebrooks.
>> And if you want more OddLotss content,
then you can find that including our
daily newsletter over at
bloomberg.com/odlots.
>> And you can chat about all of these
topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss.
>> And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please like the video, leave a
comment, or better yet, subscribe.
Thanks for watching.